jupiter tour
============

A javascript crowdsourcing experiment to prove you can plan your own trip to the Jupiter moons.

== Some conventions and guidelines if you intend to contribute to this project ==

Best thing to do first: get familiar with the code (e.g., have a look at the classes GameEngine or FaceSelector)

= Coding Style =
 - General coding style: camelCase.
 - Class names start with an upper case letter.
 - Variables start with a lower case letter.
 - Private class members/methods start with an underscore.
 - Public class members/methods start like a variable.
 - Names of constants are completely uppercase and underline separated.
 - Namespace names are completely lowercase.
 - One variable declaration per line. No comma seperated variable declarations.
 - Define variable as late as possible, initialize it as soon as possible.
 - Except for iteration variables all variables names have to be longer than one character.
 - CSS class names are all lowercase with a hyphen in between words.
 - DOM element ids are all lowercase without any separators between words.
 - Enumerations names are like Class names.
 
= Conventions =
 - If you need a variable which references the 'this' object, call it 'self' and assign it as the first variable in the method.
 - Never access a private member/method from outside the class. Simple memory hook: 'object._member = value;' is valid iff object == 'self' || object == 'this'.
 - Each namespace is placed in its own folder whereas the folder name is identical to the namespace it contains. Exception: folder 'div'.
 - Folder 'div' contains all javascript files which don't need their own namespace folder since the namespace would only consist of one class, if even.
 - A namespace is declared by a file with the namespace name as filename. In this file, declare the namespace variable and if needed namespace specific constants or enumerations.
 - Class instance specific HTML should be generated by the instance of a class. Basically, the index.html file should contain only the javascript and css links.
 - If a class is a base class, create its prototype as an object. If a class inherits from another class, add new functions to the prototype as assignments.
 - Try to avoid to access single DOM elements by jQuery $('#... or javascript getElementById. Store a reference in the class to access it fast.
 - If you have a function which eases some computation but you don't know where to put it, put it into namespace utility.
 - Constants which only converts the value's units are placed in namespace utility. Constants which are value's on its own are stored in namespace constants.
 - Every class should have a small header about its purpose.
 - Try at all cost to avoid dimensioning DOM elements with pixel as unit. Instead use percentages (for text vmin/em).
 - No global variables or methods. Everything belongs to a namespace. Have a look into 'keplerequations.js' on howto achieve this.
 - Use switch statements instead of large if-ifelse-else blocks for control flow.
 
= Namespaces =
 - algorithm: Any type of general algorithm so solve a certain problem.
 - astrodynamics: Algorithms and Classes specifically related to astrodynamics / orbital mechanics.
 - core: Contains Classes which glue the system together: Basically every object from another namespace is originating from an object in this namespace.
 - datastructure: Any type of general datastructure to easy the software development. Future classes might include "Stack,RangeTree,...".
 - utility: Conversion methods/constants, stuff for convenience.
 - constants: Physical constants.
 - strings: Contains all (longer) strings which the user sees at some point in the game.
 - geometry: Classes which are related to the domain geometry (Vectors, Matrices, ...).
 - gui: Class which has a graphical representation and will be visible for the user at some point in the game. 
 - model: Classes which abstract the graphical representation of classes (Ideally each class in gui should have a class in model. Model-View separation).
 - net: Network methods for transfering user data from and to the server. Mostly ajax wrappers.
 - plugin: Anything which is not vital for the gameplay on its own. Have a look at the other plugins to get familiar on howto implement a new plugin.
 - rawdata: Static javascript JSONs. Try to keep this namespace small.
 
 = (Maybe) Helpful stuff =
 - fitText is your friend. Use it if you add text to the game. Have a look at the existing code first.
 - Testing can be done by opening the page /game/testing.html. Have a look at the examples in the testing.js file on howto test your code.